[s]	label	def	note	b	blabel	source
secm:airfall_dust_collector	Airfall dust collection	Sample of fine-grained solid material that is passively collected by airfall from the atmosphere.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	Geoscience Australia
secm:airlift	Airlift water sampling	Compressed air is used to extract groundwater		secm:sm014	Water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:airlift	Airlift water sampling	Compressed air is used to extract groundwater		secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:artesian_flow	Artesian flow sampling	Groundwater sample obtained from flowing artesian bore		secm:sm014	Water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:artesian_flow	Artesian flow sampling	Groundwater sample obtained from flowing artesian bore		secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:auger	Auger	Specimens collected by hand or mechanical auger which enable samples to be taken at intervals down profile. For example regolith, soil or sediment.		secm:drilling	Drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:bailer	Borehole bailer sampling	Bailer is a hollow tube used to retrieve groundwater samples from monitoring wells. A bailer is tied to a piece of rope or wire and lowered into the water column to collect a sample.		secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:bailer	Borehole bailer sampling	Bailer is a hollow tube used to retrieve groundwater samples from monitoring wells. A bailer is tied to a piece of rope or wire and lowered into the water column to collect a sample.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:benthic_trawl	Benthic trawl	Seabed sampling taken over a small area seaward of the continental shelf. Sample of the upper few cm of rocky sea floor particularly for biota.		secm:trawlsampling	Trawl sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:borehole_dst_test	Borehole drill stem test	A sample is collected during drilling by a test using a hydrostatic head to measure the formation pressures and to bring the formation fluids to the surface. The test can provide information for determination of potential petroleum producing formations and their exact depth.		secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Sampling of fluids (oil, gas, or water) from a borehole by an unspecified method.		secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:borehole_prod_test	Borehole production test	A borehole sampling test similar to DST test, but on a larger scale and under the production conditions after the well completion is conducted.		secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:borehole_wft_test	Borehole wireline formation test	A sample is taken from a borehole with a wireline formation tester by inserting a probe into a well wall to withdraw a small amount of formation fluid and to measure the formation pore pressure. This measurement can provide formation pressures along the well hole, thereby giving a measure of pressure with depth or along a horizontal borehole.		secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:boreholewaterpump	Borehole water pumping	A pump designed to lift water or other fluid to the surface from a borehole.  Various designs exist, including electric submersible, helical coil, jet.  Include pump jacks and windmills that are specific to pumping fluid from boreholes, as well as pumps design to be placed inside the borehole		secm:sm014	Water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:boreholewaterpump	Borehole water pumping	A pump designed to lift water or other fluid to the surface from a borehole.  Various designs exist, including electric submersible, helical coil, jet.  Include pump jacks and windmills that are specific to pumping fluid from boreholes, as well as pumps design to be placed inside the borehole		secm:waterbodywatersampling	Water body water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:boreholewaterpump	Borehole water pumping	A pump designed to lift water or other fluid to the surface from a borehole.  Various designs exist, including electric submersible, helical coil, jet.  Include pump jacks and windmills that are specific to pumping fluid from boreholes, as well as pumps design to be placed inside the borehole		secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:bottle_incubation	bottle incubation	A method to derive the oxygen consumption rate/respiration rates of organic matter conducted in a bottle or vial  under controlled light and temperature conditions.		secm:sm200	Sediment water incubation sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:bottle_incubation_dark	bottle incubation dark	A method to derive the oxygen consumption rate/respiration rates of organic matter conducted in a bottle or vial  under controlled light and temperature conditions.		secm:bottle_incubation	bottle incubation	Geoscience Australia
secm:bottle_incubation_light	bottle incubation light	A method to derive the oxygen consumption rate/respiration rates of organic matter conducted in a bottle or vial  under controlled light and temperature conditions.		secm:bottle_incubation	bottle incubation	Geoscience Australia
secm:bottlesampling	Container sampling	Water is collected in a container that is opened to collect water at some specific depth in a water body. Includes Niskin bottles, bottles on Rosette samplers https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosette_sampler.  Also bottled samples collected by simple bailer or scoop from water surface. If water is filtered or preserved use the water sampling -filtere or -preserved categories.	include Hydrothermal Fluid and Particle Sampler (HFPS) collect fluids and particles,  Using a 25-port valve and two pumps, fluids are pumped through a titanium intake nozzle, through a Teflon hose and custom titanium and Teflon manifold with 24 ports. The sampler has a capacity of 18 water samples (700ml each) and 6 in-situ filters.        include _Titanium major water sampler_, another tool to sample high temperature water in submarine environment. Similar to a syringe, a trigger on the outside of the bottle can be pressed by the ROV pilot to release a spring that will draw fluid into the chamber. Approximately 750ml of fluid can be collected using the Major bottles. https://oceanexplorer.noaa.gov/explorations/05lostcity/logs/july28/july28.html	secm:waterbodywatersampling	Water body water sampling	this vocabulary
secm:bottlesampling	Container sampling	Water is collected in a container that is opened to collect water at some specific depth in a water body. Includes Niskin bottles, bottles on Rosette samplers https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosette_sampler.  Also bottled samples collected by simple bailer or scoop from water surface. If water is filtered or preserved use the water sampling -filtere or -preserved categories.	include Hydrothermal Fluid and Particle Sampler (HFPS) collect fluids and particles,  Using a 25-port valve and two pumps, fluids are pumped through a titanium intake nozzle, through a Teflon hose and custom titanium and Teflon manifold with 24 ports. The sampler has a capacity of 18 water samples (700ml each) and 6 in-situ filters.        include _Titanium major water sampler_, another tool to sample high temperature water in submarine environment. Similar to a syringe, a trigger on the outside of the bottle can be pressed by the ROV pilot to release a spring that will draw fluid into the chamber. Approximately 750ml of fluid can be collected using the Major bottles. https://oceanexplorer.noaa.gov/explorations/05lostcity/logs/july28/july28.html	secm:sm014	Water sampling	this vocabulary
secm:cable_tool_drilling	cable tool drilling	A percussion drilling method that uses a heavy drilling tool that is raised and lowered with enough force to pulverise the rock, with the debris removed by a bailer.		secm:percussion_drilling	Percussion drilling	National Groundwater Information System (NGIS)
secm:chamber_incubation	Chamber incubation	A method that isolates sediment and overlying water in a benthic chamber. Water samples are collected from the benthic chamber during the incubation.		secm:sm200	Sediment water incubation sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:chamber_incubation_dark	chamber incubation dark	A in situ method that isolates sediment and overlying water in a dark benthic chamber. Incubation water samples are collected from the benthic chamber during the incubation. The dark chamber restricts light penetration and therefore stops the process of photosynthesis. This enables benthic respiration to be measured.		secm:chamber_incubation	Chamber incubation	Geoscience Australia
secm:chamber_incubation_light	chamber incubation light	A in situ method that isolates sediment and overlying water in a light benthic chamber. Incubation water samples are collected from the benthic chamber during the incubation. The  transparent walls of the chamber allow light penetration and enables benthic respiration and photosynthesis to be measured.		secm:chamber_incubation	Chamber incubation	Geoscience Australia
secm:chemicalseparation	Chemical separation	sample collection by chemical processing of a sampled material		secm:sm045	Processed separation	this vocabulary
secm:core_air	Air cooled core drilling	Rock or sediment core derived from a dry, air-cooled diamond drilling method.		secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_catcher	Core catcher	A method by which a specimen of sediment is collected from the end of the core in the core catcher. The core catcher has curved finger-like projections that extend down to the lowest part of the core liner. The core catcher helps keep the sediment in the core liner when the core is being removed from the surface.		secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_conventional	core conventional	Core drilling using diamond or tungsten carbide bit using a core barrel with fibreglass inner sleeves. Used in the oil industry.		secm:core_diamond	Diamond bit drill coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_cutter	Core cutter	A method by which a specimen of sediment is collected from the lowest part of a coring assembly at the core cutter. The core cutter has sharp edges which cut and shape the sediment entering the core liner as the corer goes into the sediment.		secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_diamond	Diamond bit drill coring	Rock or sediment core drilling using a liquid-cooled, diamond or tungsten carbide bit.		secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Sampling of a core of earth material by an unspecified drilling method		secm:sm041	Coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Sampling of a core of earth material by an unspecified drilling method		secm:sm041	Coring	SESAR collection method
secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Sampling of a core of earth material by an unspecified drilling method		secm:drilling	Drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Sampling of a core of earth material by an unspecified drilling method		secm:drilling	Drilling	SESAR collection method
secm:core_geoprobe	Geoprobe coring	High quality core extracted by hydraulic power. Used in rough terrain, soft sand, mud, shallow water, or tight, congested areas. Long high quality cores.	[Ed. note] Geoprobe is a company that makes a variety of drilling and coring equipment; just saying 'Geoprobe' isn't obviously communicating what drilling technology is intended.	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	https://geoprobe.com/tooling/rock-coring-wet-rotary-systems
secm:core_geoprobe	Geoprobe coring	High quality core extracted by hydraulic power. Used in rough terrain, soft sand, mud, shallow water, or tight, congested areas. Long high quality cores.	[Ed. note] Geoprobe is a company that makes a variety of drilling and coring equipment; just saying 'Geoprobe' isn't obviously communicating what drilling technology is intended.	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_incubation_dark	core incubation dark	A method whereby a sediment core is collected along with overlying water. The sediment and water are incubated under no light and controlled temperature conditions.		secm:sm200	Sediment water incubation sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_incubation_light	core incubation light	A method whereby a sediment core is collected along with overlying water. The sediment and water are incubated under controlled light and temperature conditions.		secm:sm200	Sediment water incubation sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_mackereth	core Mackereth	The Mackereth is a complex coring system utilizing compressed gas to penetrate and recover single-drive moderate (up to 12 m) cores from lakes of diverse depths.  Mackereth cores can be deployed on virutally any small craft and and can be used in water depths up to 80 m.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_press	core press	Pore water is extracted from core material under pressure.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_push	Push coring	A pipe that is pushed into the sediment to gain a core that is no longer than 2m long. Core pipe has a valve on top that is used to create a vacuum at the top of the core when pulling the core out of the sediment. Can be operated by a human working on land, shallow water, or from a boat in shallow water with a pipe extension to reach the bottom. Can be operated mechanically from a submersible (HOV or ROV).	a smaller hand-held device made up of a length of clear plastic tubing attached to a corer head and extension poles. In the marine environment, the push corer is lowered overboard and manually pushed into the sediment before a valve at the top of the core, is closed creating a vacuum. The core and barrel is then lifted out of the surrounding sediment and back to the surface. The operation is the same on land or in shallow waters where a boat is not required. https://www.ga.gov.au/scientific-topics/marine/survey-techniques/sedimentary-coring-drilling	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_rov	Coring from submersible	A core produced by a drill mounted on a submersible vehicle, ROV, HOV.		secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_sonic	Sonic coring	Similar to the vibro-core technique, the drill stem and barrel are vibrated vertically at frequencies between 50Hz and 180Hz such that the sampler barrel advances by slicing through the regolith.		secm:sm031	Vibrator Coring	https://www.frtr.gov/site/3_1_6.html
secm:core_sonic	Sonic coring	Similar to the vibro-core technique, the drill stem and barrel are vibrated vertically at frequencies between 50Hz and 180Hz such that the sampler barrel advances by slicing through the regolith.		secm:sm031	Vibrator Coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:core_spike	core spike	A core of surficial material taken by driving a spike into the ground.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:densityseparation	Density separation	isolation of a component of an agregate based on particle density, e.g. heavy liquid		secm:sm045	Processed separation	this vocabulary
secm:diamantina_dredge	dredge diamantina	Used as a spot dredge to quickly ascertain sea bed geology. Samples give the seabed character unless it is deep when any mud is washed out during retrieval. In shallow water this dredge will return rock, mud, benthic samples and any thing else that is on the bottom.		secm:sm033	Dredge sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:drilling	Drilling	Sampling by a hole drilled into the Earth by any method		secm:sm100	Sampling method	Geoscience Australia
secm:epibenthic_sled	Benthic sled sampling	A method designed to collect benthic and benthopelagic faunas from the deep sea. The sled is made from a steel frame consisting of two skids and stabilizing planes to keep it from sinking too deep into the mud.	Sampling benthic flora and fauna using a device towed along the seafloor. The devices has have a secondary net to study plankton and can be fitted with video or stills cameras to monitor sampling in real time. https://www.ga.gov.au/scientific-topics/marine/survey-techniques/sedimentary-coring-drilling	secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:field_mapping_observation	Field mapping survey	A mapping survey undertaken in a land environment. May include observations and/or sampling.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	Geoscience Australia
secm:filtered_dust_collector	Filtered dust collector	Sample of fine-grained solid material that is actively collected from the atmosphere by pumping and filtration.		secm:filtration	Filtration residue sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:filtration	Filtration residue sampling	Separation of undissolved sediment and biological particles collected from a water column by filtration. For total dissolved solids measurements the sample is filtered through a glass fibre filter under controlled conditions.  The type of filter is dependent on the method used and the purpose of the determination.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	Geoscience Australia
secm:freefallcoring	Free fall coring	collection of core with a tube that has an assembly with weights and fins, allowed to drop through the water column and penetrate water bottom sediment.	see https://www.kc-denmark.dk/products/sediment-samplers/free-fall-corer.aspx.  This device used in sandy sediment, core tube lengths to 2 m long	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	reported in SESAR data.
secm:grab_eckman	grab Eckman	The Eckman Bottom Grab sampler is designed for sampling in soft bottomed lakes and rivers composed of muck, mud or fine peat		secm:sm036	Sediment grab	Geoscience Australia
secm:grab_shipek	grab Shipek	When the grab touches the bottom, inertia from a self-contained weight releases a catch and helical springs rotate the inner half cylinder by 180°. After turning, the scoop remains closed by the residual torque of the scoop spring. Because the rotation of the bucket is extremely rapid, it cuts the sediment cleanly, particularly in soft clays, muds, silts & sands.  After closing, the sample has optimum protection from washout during retrieval by the cylindrical design. https://www.wildco.com/how-does-the-shipek-grab-operate/, https://www.feritech.com/products/geotechnical/sea-floor-grabs/shipek-grab/	centre-pivot sampler is designed to sample unconsolidated sediments from soft ooze to hard-packed silts from deep lakes and near offshore. It brings up virtually undisturbed, unwashed samples to the surface from any depth. Its speciality is sampling benthic organisms living at or immediately below the water/bottom interface and sediment containing a significant population of non-sessile forms. https://envcoglobal.com/catalog/water/shipek-grab/	secm:sm036	Sediment grab	Geoscience Australia
secm:grab_smith_mcintyre	Smith Mcintyre grab sampling	Near surface sediment grab sample. Sample has a surface area of 0.1m2. It is useful for quantitative macrobenthos sampling in either shallow or deep water.	two spring hinged jaws with triggers on either side of the grab frame. The jaws are 'locked' in place within the frame until two pads hit the seafloor allowing the spring-loaded jaws to snap shut and collect the sediment. The strong hinges aid penetration of dense sediment while the large jaws return a substantial volume of sediment. Access to the sediment is through flaps on the upper side. The Smith McIntyre grab is used to get a quick sample of the seafloor and is not designed to get an undistributed sample	secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	https://www.ga.gov.au/scientific-topics/marine/survey-techniques/sedimentary-coring-drilling
secm:grab_van_veen	Van Veen grab sampling	Quantitative sample of the sediment. Van Veen grab has long arms for levering the clam shell scoop.	Two thin, hinged overlapping lids open while the equipment is descending which close on retrieval and are held shut by water pressure. The grab is triggered by a messenger weight dropped down the rope. Used for taking quantitative and qualitative samples of macroscopic benthic fauna. It can be used to determine the productivity of soft sediments, particularly those composed of finely divided muds, ooze, submerged marl and fine peaty materials. It is not recommended for rocky or sandy environments or where there is moderate benthic vegetation because small pebbles or vegetation stems can prevent proper jaw closure. https://www.ga.gov.au/scientific-topics/marine/survey-techniques/sedimentary-coring-drilling	secm:sm036	Sediment grab	Geoscience Australia
secm:grainsize_separation	Grain size separation	Separation of various size fractions of mineral or rock particles from the original specimen. For example, by using a seive or particle settling.		secm:sm045	Processed separation	Geoscience Australia
secm:in_situ_grab_sampler	Point souce bailer sampling	A point souce bailer that has a check valve at each end of the bailer allowing sample collection from a discrete depth		secm:bailer	Borehole bailer sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:liquid-gas_separation	Liquid-gas separation	Separation of natural gas from a liquid phase at a surface separator to generate samples of both phases.		secm:borehole_fluid_sampling	Borehole fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:lysimeter	Lysimeter water collection	A lysimeter is a container used to measure water movement in soil and the quality of water. They are used in hydrology and water quality research to study the natural environment and understand how water moves through soil.   		secm:sm014	Water sampling	https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/agricultural-and-biological-sciences/lysimeters
secm:microanalyticsampling	Microanalytic sampling	Sampling microscopic regions of a prepared sample by particle bombardment (electron, ion...) or with electromagneting beams (laser, x-ray...)		secm:sm045	Processed separation	this vocabulary
secm:outcrop_sampling	Outcrop sampling	Collection of material from a rock outcrop or subcrop at the ground surface, typically using a hammer, or feathers and wedges.		secm:surface_material_sampling	Subaerial surface sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:percussion_drilling	Percussion drilling	Rock or sediment chips or fragments derived from a percussion (hammer) method. Include pneumatic drilling		secm:drilling	Drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:phlegercoring	Phleger coring	Small coring device for use in shallow water, for cores <1 m in length, in  sediment types ranging from soft to sandy, semi-compacted material, as well as peat and plant roots in shallow lakes or marshes		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	https://archive.epa.gov/water/archive/polwaste/web/pdf/ch3.pdf
secm:pipe_dredge	dredge pipe	Sampling of small fragments and mud from the sea floor, using a metal pipe linked to the tow cable. Total weight of the dredge is around 25kg.		secm:sm033	Dredge sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:pit_or_trench_sampling	Pit or trench sampling	Collection of materials, typically regolith, near the ground surface from a pit, trench, or costean dug by spade, backhoe, or other mechanical means (not drilling).		secm:surface_material_sampling	Subaerial surface sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:pumpsampling	Pump sampling	Sampling a fluid using a pump to move fluid to the sample container		secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	SESAR sample descriptions
secm:rab_drilling	RAB drilling	RAB, rotary air blast, or Down-the-hole drilling. Rock or sediment chips or fragments are derived from a percussion drilling method where the cuttings are blown up the outside of the rods and collected at surface, using air or a combination of air and foam lift the cuttings.		secm:percussion_drilling	Percussion drilling	http://www.foragefte.com; http://www.masterdrilling.com
secm:rain_gauge	Rain gauge	Rainwater is collected using an approved rain gauge/collector method.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:reverse_circulation_drilling	reverse circulation drilling	A drilling technique similar to rotary drilling except that drilling fluid flow down the annular space between the drilling stem and the wall of the hole forcing cuttings up through the inside of the drill stem .		secm:rotary_drilling	Rotary drilling	National Groundwater Information System (NGIS)
secm:rotary_drilling	Rotary drilling	A drilling method using a drill stem equipped with a bit that is rotated to cut and grind the rock with a fluid pumped down the stem to force cuttings up through the annular space between the stem and the wall of the hole		secm:drilling	Drilling	National Groundwater Information System (NGIS)
secm:rotary_hammer_drilling	Rotary hammer drilling	A percussion drilling method using a cutting tool powered by compressed air that creates a rapid percussion effect coupled with rotary action to drill hard rocks.		secm:percussion_drilling	Percussion drilling	National Groundwater Information System (NGIS)
secm:ses200	Agassiz trawl	Nets towed over the sea floor to sample species living on or near the bottom, with single rectangular mouth piece, a conical filtering net, and equipped with closing mouth mechanism.		secm:trawlsampling	Trawl sampling	<http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/L22/current/TOOL0991/1>
secm:ses201	Submersible grab	Collect sample from an underwater vehicle, using mechanical arms on vehicle.		secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	
secm:ses202	Backhoe			secm:sm047	Surface grab 	
secm:ses203	Beam trawl	Nets towed over the sea floor having the horizontal net opening provided by a wooden or metal beam that disrupts the surface of the bed.		secm:trawlsampling	Trawl sampling	<http://vocab.nerc.ac.uk/collection/L05/current/62>
secm:ses204	Blake trawl			secm:trawlsampling	Trawl sampling	
secm:ses205	Campbell grab sampling	utilizes a pulley arrangement to gain extra purchase to activate a pair of jaws.  Shepard (1973) reports that  large Petersen grabs have been known to bring back undisturbed samples that still retain stratification characteristics.  However, Schlieper (1972) points out  that the tensile closing action from the attached hydrowire creates a secondary lifting force at the central axis that the two jaws pivot around, resulting in a shallower bite (5 centimeters (cm) or less), especially in firmer sediments. photo shows large jaw pincers, bigger that other grab samplers, dated 1963, so it is likely old technology no longer in use.	photo shows large jaw pincers, bigger that other grab samplers, dated 1963, so it is likely old technology no longer in use.   'Campbell' grab is a large version of a Petersen grab.  https://woodshole.er.usgs.gov/openfile/of2005-1001/htmldocs/samplers/grab/campbell.htm	secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	PSEP, 1997. Recommended Guidelines for Sampling Marine Sediment, Water Column, and Tissue in Puget Sound. 
secm:ses206	Cartridge filter filtrate	liquid that has been passed through a cartridge filter		secm:sm023	Water sampling-filter	
secm:ses207	Cartridge filter residue	material left behind when liquid passed throught cartridge filter		secm:filtration	Filtration residue sampling	this vocabulary
secm:ses208	Chain saw	Sample extracted from feature of interest by cutting with a chain saw.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	SESAR data
secm:ses210	Chip sampling	sampling over an area of a feature off interest by breaking off small pieces; produces an aggregate		secm:sm016	Collected from outcrop	
secm:ses212	Syringe sampling	Sampling by using a tube with a plunger to pull material into a cylinder; used in soils, soft sediment, and fluids, commonly for analysis of volatiles.		secm:ses233	Suction Sampler	Based on web search for syringe sampling and inspection of SESAR records reporting methods with 'syringe' in the text.  Examples from soil environmental sampling, sediment sampling, water sampling
secm:ses213	Subaqueous organism trap	Collection of sample using trap to collect organisms in water, e.g. crabs, bacteria.	generalize from crap trap, mussel pot, bacteria trap, _trap_ found in SESAR data.	secm:sm100	Sampling method	this vocabulary
secm:ses214	Gas tight bottle sampling	Gas collection in a collection bottle that is sealed well enough to maintain the pressure of the original sample fluid; used to sample gasses from deep sea sources.  Described technique uses flow-through gas sampling.		secm:sm013	Gas sampling	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dsr.2020.103282
secm:ses215	Ghostbuster fluid sampler	Ghostbuster appears to be a device for in situ chemical measurements in a high temperature/pressure environment (e.g. sea floor black smoker), designed by Kang Ding/Bill Seyfried of UMN.  The information found on the web doesn't indicate it returns material samples, just measurements. (https://www.marine-geo.org/services/vocab/vocab_device_type).  https://gfd.whoi.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/66/2023/08/at11-7-cruise_report.pdf. https://www.unols.org/sites/default/files/CA_InstrumentationManipulators.pdf		secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	
secm:ses216	Hammer from outcrop			secm:sm016	Collected from outcrop	
secm:ses217	Hand auger			secm:auger	Auger	
secm:ses218	Human grab from surface	Sample collected by picking up some loose material from subaerial solid earth boundary surface		secm:sm035	Manual grab	
secm:ses220	Trigger Coring			secm:sm005	Soft material coring	
secm:ses221	Kasten Corer	Large volume, reletatively undisturbed sediment core (~3m long) from a Kasten Corer. The corer is constructed of stainless steel and is square in cross-section. A weight of several hundred kilograms on top of the corer pushes it 2-3 metres into the seabed. It is designed for sedimentological and geochemical sampling of fine-grained sediments. This type of corer obtains relatively undisturbed cores and can preserve the sediment/water interface. This type of core is useful for determining sediment accumulation rates.	A slight variation on the gravity corer is the Kasten corer. This uses a similar set up, but uses a sample tube manufactured from sheet metal of square cross section with sides approximately 150mm. No liner is used. A cutter section fitted to the end of the sample tube has two spring-loaded flaps that close when the corer is withdrawn from the sediment. The sample tube is designed to be split to gain access to the sample. https://noc.ac.uk/facilities/national-marine-equipment-pool/scientific-engineering/seafloor-sampling	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:ses222	Mechanical grab from surface	under water or atmosphere		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	
secm:ses223	Menzie trawl			secm:trawlsampling	Trawl sampling	
secm:ses224	Micropillar Sampling	focused ion beam (FIB) machining is used to fabricate nano to micron sized pillars of material for testing of mechanical properties	reported for samples of carrera marble by pskemer@wustl.edu, 45 samples.  Interpret to mean the sample is the ion-milled micropillar.	secm:sm100	Sampling method	https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/engineering/micropillar-compression
secm:ses225	Niskin bottle	device used to collect water samples at different depths in the ocean. It consists of a PVC or metal cylinder with two or more hinged caps at either end that are remotely operated using a wire or cable. When the sampler is lowered into the ocean, the caps are opened at predetermined depths, allowing seawater to be trapped inside without contamination from the surrounding water.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	https://adkinstruments.in/index.php/categories/oceanography/niskin-water-sampler
secm:ses225	Niskin bottle	device used to collect water samples at different depths in the ocean. It consists of a PVC or metal cylinder with two or more hinged caps at either end that are remotely operated using a wire or cable. When the sampler is lowered into the ocean, the caps are opened at predetermined depths, allowing seawater to be trapped inside without contamination from the surrounding water.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:ses225	Niskin bottle	device used to collect water samples at different depths in the ocean. It consists of a PVC or metal cylinder with two or more hinged caps at either end that are remotely operated using a wire or cable. When the sampler is lowered into the ocean, the caps are opened at predetermined depths, allowing seawater to be trapped inside without contamination from the surrounding water.		secm:bottlesampling	Container sampling	https://adkinstruments.in/index.php/categories/oceanography/niskin-water-sampler
secm:ses225	Niskin bottle	device used to collect water samples at different depths in the ocean. It consists of a PVC or metal cylinder with two or more hinged caps at either end that are remotely operated using a wire or cable. When the sampler is lowered into the ocean, the caps are opened at predetermined depths, allowing seawater to be trapped inside without contamination from the surrounding water.		secm:bottlesampling	Container sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:ses225	Niskin bottle	Surface water/seawater collection. A device for collection of water samples from a specific depth in the water column.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	https://adkinstruments.in/index.php/categories/oceanography/niskin-water-sampler
secm:ses225	Niskin bottle	Surface water/seawater collection. A device for collection of water samples from a specific depth in the water column.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:ses225	Niskin bottle	Surface water/seawater collection. A device for collection of water samples from a specific depth in the water column.		secm:bottlesampling	Container sampling	https://adkinstruments.in/index.php/categories/oceanography/niskin-water-sampler
secm:ses225	Niskin bottle	Surface water/seawater collection. A device for collection of water samples from a specific depth in the water column.		secm:bottlesampling	Container sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:ses226	Pulverize	reduce to powder		secm:sm100	Sampling method	
secm:ses227	Scoop	Interpret to mean collecting some amount of a liquid or fine-grained aggregate using a spoon-like instrument (scoop); size can range from milligram to kilogram mass.  Metallurgy: _A shallow, spherical 1.25-inch diameter disc is sawed out of the feature of interest._ https://www.stress.com/services/materials-engineering/field-inspection-and-testing/non-destructive-scoop-sampling/.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	
secm:ses228	Settlement Plate	Plates designed to remain in an environment (typically subaqueous) to monitor biome development. DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.2.33138.71361.  Also colonization substrate sampler collected in submarine exploration.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	
secm:ses229	Shaker table			secm:sm100	Sampling method	
secm:ses230	Shovel			secm:surface_material_sampling	Subaerial surface sampling	
secm:ses231	Sieved aggregate	Sample of particular grain size particles using sieves.		secm:grainsize_separation	Grain size separation	
secm:ses232	Slide hammer corer			secm:sm005	Soft material coring	
secm:ses233	Suction Sampler			secm:sm100	Sampling method	
secm:ses234	Core preserved with wax	Core coated with wax or other sealant to preserve volatile content	A standard procedure for core preservation consists of wrapping the sample with plastic film and aluminum foil before dip coating it. For the purposes of this paper, the term ‘wax’ will be used to describe the meltable coating used to cover the wrapped core plug or whole core section.	secm:sm100	Sampling method	https://jgmaas.com/SCA/2014/SCA2014-097.pdf
secm:sidewall_core	Sidewall coring	A method to extract core or plug from the sidewall of a borehole.		secm:sm041	Coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:sidewall_core	Sidewall coring	A method to extract core or plug from the sidewall of a borehole.		secm:drilling	Drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sidewall_core_bullet	Percussion sidewall coring	Percussion cores are taken by firing hollow bullets into the formation. The bullets are attached to the tool by fasteners, and are retrieved, along with the core inside, by pulling up the tool and the fasteners. Percussion coring tools typically hold 20 to 30 bullets, but two or three tools can be combined on one run in the hole.		secm:sidewall_core	Sidewall coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:sidewall_core_mechanical	Rotary sidewall coring	Mechanical tools use hollow rotary drills to cut and then pull out core plugs. Up to 75 plugs can be recovered on one run. With full recovery, cores from typical percussion tools are 1 in. [2.5 cm] in diameter by 1 3/4 in. [4.4 cm] long, while those from mechanical tools are 0.91 in. [2.3 cm] in diameter by 2 in. [5 cm] long. The latter are also known as rotary sidewall cores.		secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sidewall_core_mechanical	Rotary sidewall coring	Mechanical tools use hollow rotary drills to cut and then pull out core plugs. Up to 75 plugs can be recovered on one run. With full recovery, cores from typical percussion tools are 1 in. [2.5 cm] in diameter by 1 3/4 in. [4.4 cm] long, while those from mechanical tools are 0.91 in. [2.3 cm] in diameter by 2 in. [5 cm] long. The latter are also known as rotary sidewall cores.		secm:sidewall_core	Sidewall coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:slurpsampling	Slurp sampling	For some small, delicate, or flexible specimens, the “slurp” hose is used to ensure that the sample is collected and handled with the proper care. ROV pilots use the manipulator arm to pick up the handle of this vacuum-like hose, which then sucks up water, sediment, and small or delicate fauna into one of the slurp containers.		secm:ses233	Suction Sampler	https://nautiluslive.org/science/sampling-procedures
secm:sm001	Composite water sampling- preserve with reagent	composite water sample  preserved with reagent (e.g. nitric acid  sulfuric acid) as part of sampling process		secm:sm010	Composite water sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm002	Composite water sampling-filter	composite water sample  filtered as part of the sampling process (in the field or within a very short time period after collection)		secm:sm010	Composite water sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm003	Composite water sampling- filter and preserve with reagent	composite filtered water sample  preserved with reagent (e.g. nitric acid  sulfuric acid) as part of sampling process		secm:sm002	Composite water sampling-filter	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm003	Composite water sampling- filter and preserve with reagent	composite filtered water sample  preserved with reagent (e.g. nitric acid  sulfuric acid) as part of sampling process		secm:sm001	Composite water sampling- preserve with reagent	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm005	Soft material coring	General category for methods to extract columnar samples perpendicular to the depositional surface from soil or sediment that is poorly enough consolidated that it can be sampled without rotary drilling.		secm:sm041	Coring	SESAR collection method
secm:sm006	Chain bag dredge	Sampling of large rocks from the sea floor using a chain bag		secm:sm033	Dredge sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm006	Chain bag dredge	Sampling of large rocks from the sea floor using a chain bag		secm:sm033	Dredge sampling	SESAR collection method; http://www.deepreef.org/technology/79-rock-dredge.html
secm:sm006	Chain bag dredge	A rock dredge is a large bag made of metal chain links attached to a simple heavy frame that keeps the bag expanded. The dredge is lowered off the back of a ship to the seafloor and dragged along to collect large pieces of rock. Because of the coarse chain links  most of the finer material is washed out of the bag  leaving behind the larger rock and gravel pieces within the chain bag. The dredge is then winched up to the surface and any samples are dumped onto the deck of the ship to be sorted and preserved.		secm:sm033	Dredge sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm006	Chain bag dredge	A rock dredge is a large bag made of metal chain links attached to a simple heavy frame that keeps the bag expanded. The dredge is lowered off the back of a ship to the seafloor and dragged along to collect large pieces of rock. Because of the coarse chain links  most of the finer material is washed out of the bag  leaving behind the larger rock and gravel pieces within the chain bag. The dredge is then winched up to the surface and any samples are dumped onto the deck of the ship to be sorted and preserved.		secm:sm033	Dredge sampling	SESAR collection method; http://www.deepreef.org/technology/79-rock-dredge.html
secm:sm007	Hand auger coring	core extracted from sediment or soil by a hand rotated tool with a special bit that extracts short segments of cored sediment; many variations in design.		secm:core_drilling_unspecified	Core drilling	this vocabulary; http://www.oakenviro.com/pdfs/Dutch%20Auger%20equipment%20options%20-%20Eijkelkamp.pdf
secm:sm008	Inverted funnel to evacuated bottle gas collection	Gas is collected from a bubbling subaqueous gas source by inverting a suitable size and composition funnel over the gas source connected by a tube to an evacuated bottle gas collector.		secm:sm011	Evacuated bottle gas sampling	
secm:sm009	Inverted funnel to flow through bottle gas collection	Gas is collected from a bubbling subaqueous gas source by inverting a suitable size and composition funnel over the gas source  connected by a tube to a  flow through bottle gas collector.		secm:sm012	Flow through bottle gas sampling	
secm:sm010	Composite water sampling	water sample collected through some documented process over an extended water volume  meant to characterize that volume  e.g. a profile in a lake  a stream cross section  or some volume in the ocean. Many different processes may be used to collect subsamples and aggregate them into a representative single sample.		secm:waterbodywatersampling	Water body water sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm010	Composite water sampling	water sample collected through some documented process over an extended water volume  meant to characterize that volume  e.g. a profile in a lake  a stream cross section  or some volume in the ocean. Many different processes may be used to collect subsamples and aggregate them into a representative single sample.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm011	Evacuated bottle gas sampling	A chemically inert and durable tube e.g. titanium quartz alumina or mullite) is inserted into the gas source, and allowed to thermally equilibrate with the gas; a specially prepared collection bottle with a high vacuum stopcock and sample port is attached to the collection tube.   The bottle is prepared with a concentrated aqueous sodium hydroxide solution, carefully weighed and evacuated with a vacuum pump. As gas bubbles through the alkaline solution, acid gases such as CO2 H2S SO2 HCl and HF dissolve into the liquid. The remaining gases such as N2 O2 H2 CO and He collect in the headspace of the bottle. Geothermal system gases are typically omposed mostly of water and condensable acid gases that are absorbed into the alkaline solution, so many liters of gas can be collected in a single bottle. This method concentrates gases in the solution and headspace and thereby promotes better analytical precision. Typically used for hot (volcanic geothermal) gas collection.		secm:sm013	Gas sampling	http://volcanoes.usgs.gov/activity/methods/gas/sample.php
secm:sm011	Evacuated bottle gas sampling	A chemically inert and durable tube e.g. titanium quartz alumina or mullite) is inserted into the gas source, and allowed to thermally equilibrate with the gas; a specially prepared collection bottle with a high vacuum stopcock and sample port is attached to the collection tube.   The bottle is prepared with a concentrated aqueous sodium hydroxide solution, carefully weighed and evacuated with a vacuum pump. As gas bubbles through the alkaline solution, acid gases such as CO2 H2S SO2 HCl and HF dissolve into the liquid. The remaining gases such as N2 O2 H2 CO and He collect in the headspace of the bottle. Geothermal system gases are typically omposed mostly of water and condensable acid gases that are absorbed into the alkaline solution, so many liters of gas can be collected in a single bottle. This method concentrates gases in the solution and headspace and thereby promotes better analytical precision. Typically used for hot (volcanic geothermal) gas collection.		secm:sm013	Gas sampling	https://asgmt.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/105.pdf
secm:sm011	Evacuated bottle gas sampling	A chemically inert and durable tube e.g. titanium quartz alumina or mullite) is inserted into the gas source, and allowed to thermally equilibrate with the gas; a specially prepared collection bottle with a high vacuum stopcock and sample port is attached to the collection tube.   The bottle is prepared with a concentrated aqueous sodium hydroxide solution, carefully weighed and evacuated with a vacuum pump. As gas bubbles through the alkaline solution, acid gases such as CO2 H2S SO2 HCl and HF dissolve into the liquid. The remaining gases such as N2 O2 H2 CO and He collect in the headspace of the bottle. Geothermal system gases are typically omposed mostly of water and condensable acid gases that are absorbed into the alkaline solution, so many liters of gas can be collected in a single bottle. This method concentrates gases in the solution and headspace and thereby promotes better analytical precision. Typically used for hot (volcanic geothermal) gas collection.		secm:sm013	Gas sampling	https://pubs.usgs.gov/of/1974/0361/report.pdf
secm:sm012	Flow through bottle gas sampling	Insert a suitable chemically inert and durable tube (e.g. titanium  quartz  alumina  or mullite) into gas source. After allowing the tube to heat until condensation in the tube has reached equilibrium with the escaping gases  usually about 5 minutes  a specially-designed flow-through sample bottle with a stopcock at each end and a hand-operated pump is attached to the collection tubing.  The hand pump flushes out air and draws the gas into the bottle. This collection method is faster that the evacuated bottle method. It is used when a complete gas analysis is not necessary  or where field conditions are too hazardous to safely make an evacuated-bottle collection. Sulfur gases are stable for only a short time so this type of sample must be analyzed within a few hours of collection.		secm:sm013	Gas sampling	http://volcanoes.usgs.gov/activity/methods/gas/sample.php
secm:sm013	Gas sampling	general class for gas sampling methods	include Headspace equilibration method; https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvman.2012.06.033	secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	this vocabulary
secm:sm014	Water sampling	Generic category for any method off acquiring a water sample. Water collected into a suitable container from a single sampling point. Includes grab sample from stream  samples collected by machines that open and close sampling bottles as the device is lowered through water column. e.g. Van Dorn bottles,  Kemmerer Water Sampler		secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm014	Water sampling	Generic category for any method off acquiring a water sample. Water collected into a suitable container from a single sampling point. Includes grab sample from stream  samples collected by machines that open and close sampling bottles as the device is lowered through water column. e.g. Van Dorn bottles,  Kemmerer Water Sampler		secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm014	Water sampling	Any method used to sample water.		secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm014	Water sampling	Any method used to sample water.		secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm015	Channel sampling	sampling material along a channel through a feature of interest.	chip an approximately 3-inch by 3-inch (7.5 cm by 7.5 cm) channel accross the sampled feature (e.g. a coal bed) with a chisel or pick-point hammer  producing  fragments 2 inches (5 cm) or less across. Positioning a horizontal plastic sheet below the level of channel cutting is sometimes helpful.  May also be applied to sampling at regular intervals along a channel or trench cut across a surface.	secm:sm016	Collected from outcrop	USGS Circular; Vernon E. Swanson and Claude Huffman  Jr.  1976  GUIDELINES FOR SAMPLE COLLECTING AND ANALYTICAL METHODS USED IN THE U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY FOR DETERMINING CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF COAL: U. S. Geological Survey  CIRCULAR 735. accessed at http://energy.er.usgs.gov/products/databases/CoalQual/Docs/c735.pdf
secm:sm015	Channel sampling	sampling material along a channel through a feature of interest.	chip an approximately 3-inch by 3-inch (7.5 cm by 7.5 cm) channel accross the sampled feature (e.g. a coal bed) with a chisel or pick-point hammer  producing  fragments 2 inches (5 cm) or less across. Positioning a horizontal plastic sheet below the level of channel cutting is sometimes helpful.  May also be applied to sampling at regular intervals along a channel or trench cut across a surface.	secm:sm016	Collected from outcrop	
secm:sm016	Collected from outcrop	specimen obtained by breaking piece(s) of rock from rock outcrop  on surface  or in a subsurface tunnel		secm:sm035	Manual grab	this vocabulary
secm:sm017	Manual surface grab	Specimen obtained from loose material on surface  e.g. from talus, colluvium, mine heap.		secm:ses218	Human grab from surface	this vocabulary
secm:sm018	Sediment trap	Sediment traps are containers placed in the water column to collect particles falling toward the sea floor. The traps collect tiny sediment or larger accumulations called marine snow - made up of organic matter, dead sea creatures, tiny shells, dust and minerals.	The basic sediment trap consists of a broad funnel with a collecting jar at the bottom. The funnel opening covers a standard area (such as 0.25 square meter [2.7 square feet]) and has baffles at the top to keep out very large objects that might clog the funnel.	secm:sm100	Sampling method	http://www.whoi.edu/instruments/viewInstrument.do?id=10286
secm:sm018	Sediment trap	Sediment traps are containers placed in the water column to collect particles falling toward the sea floor. The traps collect tiny sediment or larger accumulations called marine snow - made up of organic matter, dead sea creatures, tiny shells, dust and minerals.	The basic sediment trap consists of a broad funnel with a collecting jar at the bottom. The funnel opening covers a standard area (such as 0.25 square meter [2.7 square feet]) and has baffles at the top to keep out very large objects that might clog the funnel.	secm:sm100	Sampling method	SESAR collection method; 
secm:sm018	Sediment trap	Sediment traps are containers placed in the water column to collect particles falling toward the sea floor. The traps collect tiny sediment or larger accumulations called marine snow - made up of organic matter, dead sea creatures, tiny shells, dust and minerals.	The basic sediment trap consists of a broad funnel with a collecting jar at the bottom. The funnel opening covers a standard area (such as 0.25 square meter [2.7 square feet]) and has baffles at the top to keep out very large objects that might clog the funnel.	secm:sm100	Sampling method	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm019	Panned concentrate sampling	Use of a gold-miners pan to concentrate heavy minerals from a loose sediment (typcially stream sediment) sample		secm:densityseparation	Density separation	this vocabulary
secm:sm020	Split processed sample	mechanical separation of part a processed sample; e.g. taking grains from a mineral separate, splitting a powdered sample  splitting a crushed sample		secm:sm045	Processed separation	this vocabulary
secm:sm021	Suspended sediment separate	Suspended sediment separated from containing water by filtration or centrifuge.		secm:sm045	Processed separation	SESAR collection method; this vocabulary
secm:sm021	Suspended sediment separate	Suspended sediment separated from containing water by filtration or centrifuge.		secm:filtration	Filtration residue sampling	SESAR collection method; this vocabulary
secm:sm022	Water sampling- preserve with reagent	water sample  preserved with reagent (e.g. nitric acid  sulfuric acid) as part of sampling process		secm:waterbodywatersampling	Water body water sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm022	Water sampling- preserve with reagent	water sample  preserved with reagent (e.g. nitric acid  sulfuric acid) as part of sampling process		secm:sm014	Water sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm023	Water sampling-filter	water is filtered as part of the sampling process (in the field or within a very short time period after collection) Sample is filtrate.	Include Hot Fluid Sampler (HFS), collects hot fluid samples using various types of filters https://www.pmel.noaa.gov/eoi/nemo2003/logbook/aug27.html	secm:sm014	Water sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm023	Water sampling-filter	water is filtered as part of the sampling process (in the field or within a very short time period after collection) Sample is filtrate.	Include Hot Fluid Sampler (HFS), collects hot fluid samples using various types of filters https://www.pmel.noaa.gov/eoi/nemo2003/logbook/aug27.html	secm:waterbodywatersampling	Water body water sampling	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm024	Water sampling-filter and preserve with reagent	water sample is filtered and preserved with reagent (e.g. nitric acid  sulfuric acid) as part of sampling process		secm:sm023	Water sampling-filter	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm024	Water sampling-filter and preserve with reagent	water sample is filtered and preserved with reagent (e.g. nitric acid  sulfuric acid) as part of sampling process		secm:sm022	Water sampling- preserve with reagent	e.g. see http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf
secm:sm025	Box Coring	A method that obtains a large volume or large surface area core with shallow penetration and minimum disturbance. Commonly uses a double spade system.  A box core uses trigger plates that contact the seafloor to close the top and bottom of a metal box plunged into the seabed. This device neatly extracts a plug of sediment that is mostly undisturbed and allows scientists to examine the layers of sediment carefully and any marine life found within.  Use this category for Eckman Dredge samples as well		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	SESAR collection method; http://www.deepreef.org/technology/9-grab.html; http://www.eu-hermione.net/box-core; http://www.azdeq.gov/environ/water/assessment/download/sampling.pdf (Eckman dredge)
secm:sm025	Box Coring	A method that obtains a large volume or large surface area core with shallow penetration and minimum disturbance. Commonly uses a double spade system.  A box core uses trigger plates that contact the seafloor to close the top and bottom of a metal box plunged into the seabed. This device neatly extracts a plug of sediment that is mostly undisturbed and allows scientists to examine the layers of sediment carefully and any marine life found within.  Use this category for Eckman Dredge samples as well		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm026	Gravity Coring	Coring that relies on the weight of the device for penetration into the seafloor. Geoscience Australia's gravity corer consists of a one tonne weight atop a steel core barrel which houses an internal PVC core sleeve. The unit is lowered to a predetermined height above the seafloor using a wire rope before being allowed to freefall. The resulting core enters the internal sleeve and is held in place by a core catcher. The wire rope is then reeled in and the inner sleeve is removed from the core barrel and the core is processed. Gravity cores up to 12 metres in length can be collected with some systems but in practice recoveries are typically less than six metres. The gravity corer is designed for use in areas of soft, unconsolidated sediment.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	SESAR collection method; http://www.whoi.edu/instruments/viewInstrument.do?id=8087  http://www.whoi.edu/instruments/viewInstrument.do?id=1079
secm:sm026	Gravity Coring	Coring that relies on the weight of the device for penetration into the seafloor. Geoscience Australia's gravity corer consists of a one tonne weight atop a steel core barrel which houses an internal PVC core sleeve. The unit is lowered to a predetermined height above the seafloor using a wire rope before being allowed to freefall. The resulting core enters the internal sleeve and is held in place by a core catcher. The wire rope is then reeled in and the inner sleeve is removed from the core barrel and the core is processed. Gravity cores up to 12 metres in length can be collected with some systems but in practice recoveries are typically less than six metres. The gravity corer is designed for use in areas of soft, unconsolidated sediment.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm027	Hand Held Coring	Collects core by operator pushing the core tube into the sediment to be sampled; may be assisted by vibration induced in the core tube.  Like push core, but manually operated.		secm:core_push	Push coring	SESAR collection method
secm:sm028	Multi coring	sampling by pushing a device into seafloor sediments that extracts many tubular samples of sediment at once. The multicore has a cone-shaped aluminum frame. In the middle are eight plastic tubes. When the frame settles on the floor  the center of the multicore slowly and evenly pushes the tubes into the sediment. The tubes are capped at the top and bottom and the multicore comes back to the surface with eight samples of sediment.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	SESAR collection method
secm:sm028	Multi coring	sampling by pushing a device into seafloor sediments that extracts many tubular samples of sediment at once. The multicore has a cone-shaped aluminum frame. In the middle are eight plastic tubes. When the frame settles on the floor  the center of the multicore slowly and evenly pushes the tubes into the sediment. The tubes are capped at the top and bottom and the multicore comes back to the surface with eight samples of sediment.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	http://polardiscovery.whoi.edu/expedition5/tools_multicore.html 
secm:sm029	Piston Coring	Piston corers have a piston mechanism that is triggered when the corer hits the bottom. As the barrel enters the sediment a special internal piston creates a vacuum and helps to draw the core into the barrel. The piston helps to avoid disturbing the sediment. As the piston corer penetrates the seafloor  the piston inside stops at the sediment surface. The action of the piston creates a pressure differential at the top of the sediment column. This allows the soft material to enter the core liner without disruption. A piston corer uses a 'free fall' of the coring rig to achieve a greater initial force on impact than gravity coring  and a sliding piston inside the core barrel to reduce inside wall friction with the sediment and to assist in the evacuation of displaced water from the top of the corer. The piston-coring rig is comprised of a trigger assembly  the coring weight assembly  core barrels  tip assembly  and piston.	consists of a weight fitted connected to a steel sample tube, with a PVC liner tube inside the full-length of the core barrel. A piston is fitted inside the PVC liner and is attached to a wire that runs inside the corer barrel, through a hole in the centre of the weight and is attached to the main deployment wire. The corer is lowered on a wire to the seabed until a trigger weight, suspended from the corer weight via an arm, contacts the seabed, and releases the corer for free-fall a distance pre-set by the length of trigger wire to sink into the sediment. As the corer penetrates the sediment it reaches a point where the piston inside the barrel  is level with the surface of the sediment. As the corer sinks further into the sediment, the piston should remain static at its optimum point at the sediment surface. The core tube then moves past the piston into the sediment creating a vacuum at the top of the tube which helps to overcome the friction generated between the sediment and the inside of the core liner. https://noc.ac.uk/facilities/national-marine-equipment-pool/scientific-engineering/seafloor-sampling	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	https://www.ga.gov.au/scientific-topics/marine/survey-techniques/sedimentary-coring-drilling
secm:sm029	Piston Coring	Piston corers have a piston mechanism that is triggered when the corer hits the bottom. As the barrel enters the sediment a special internal piston creates a vacuum and helps to draw the core into the barrel. The piston helps to avoid disturbing the sediment. As the piston corer penetrates the seafloor  the piston inside stops at the sediment surface. The action of the piston creates a pressure differential at the top of the sediment column. This allows the soft material to enter the core liner without disruption. A piston corer uses a 'free fall' of the coring rig to achieve a greater initial force on impact than gravity coring  and a sliding piston inside the core barrel to reduce inside wall friction with the sediment and to assist in the evacuation of displaced water from the top of the corer. The piston-coring rig is comprised of a trigger assembly  the coring weight assembly  core barrels  tip assembly  and piston.	consists of a weight fitted connected to a steel sample tube, with a PVC liner tube inside the full-length of the core barrel. A piston is fitted inside the PVC liner and is attached to a wire that runs inside the corer barrel, through a hole in the centre of the weight and is attached to the main deployment wire. The corer is lowered on a wire to the seabed until a trigger weight, suspended from the corer weight via an arm, contacts the seabed, and releases the corer for free-fall a distance pre-set by the length of trigger wire to sink into the sediment. As the corer penetrates the sediment it reaches a point where the piston inside the barrel  is level with the surface of the sediment. As the corer sinks further into the sediment, the piston should remain static at its optimum point at the sediment surface. The core tube then moves past the piston into the sediment creating a vacuum at the top of the tube which helps to overcome the friction generated between the sediment and the inside of the core liner. https://noc.ac.uk/facilities/national-marine-equipment-pool/scientific-engineering/seafloor-sampling	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	SESAR collection method; http://www.whoi.edu/instruments/gallery.do?mainid=17288&iid=8087; http://www.tdi-bi.com/field_services/sge_info/piston_coring.htm
secm:sm030	Probe core	Soil or sediment collected by pneumatically pushing or pounding a sleeve  through soft sediments via a rig mounted on the back of a pick-up truck or on an ATV.  Note: Sediment in cores commonly is compressed to 30-50% of the in situ volume. Wildco corer.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	SESAR collection method; http://www.fandm.edu/earth-and-environment/sediment-sampling-methods
secm:sm031	Vibrator Coring	A core tube is attached to a source of mechanical vibration (the power head) and lowered into  sediment. The vibrations provide energy for rearranging the particles within the sediment in such a way that the coretube penetrates under the static weight of the vibracoring apparatus. Samples include stiff and stony clays, soft rock and sands, and saturated sediments which can not be sampled using gravity or piston corers. Also know as VIBRA.	Vibracoring (or vibrocoring) is a technology and a technique for collecting core samples of underwater sediments and wetland soils.  The vibrating mechanism of a vibracorer  sometimes called the _vibrahead_  operates on hydraulic  pneumatic  mechanical or electrical power from an external source.  The attached core tube is driven into sediment by the force of gravity  enhanced by vibration energy.  When the insertion is completed  the vibracorer is turned off  and the tube is withdrawn with the aid of hoist equipment.	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	http://www.pvltech.com
secm:sm031	Vibrator Coring	A core tube is attached to a source of mechanical vibration (the power head) and lowered into  sediment. The vibrations provide energy for rearranging the particles within the sediment in such a way that the coretube penetrates under the static weight of the vibracoring apparatus. Samples include stiff and stony clays, soft rock and sands, and saturated sediments which can not be sampled using gravity or piston corers. Also know as VIBRA.	Vibracoring (or vibrocoring) is a technology and a technique for collecting core samples of underwater sediments and wetland soils.  The vibrating mechanism of a vibracorer  sometimes called the _vibrahead_  operates on hydraulic  pneumatic  mechanical or electrical power from an external source.  The attached core tube is driven into sediment by the force of gravity  enhanced by vibration energy.  When the insertion is completed  the vibracorer is turned off  and the tube is withdrawn with the aid of hoist equipment.	secm:sm005	Soft material coring	SESAR collection method; http://www.vibracoring.com/vcconcepts.html
secm:sm032	Blasting	sample collected from rock material freed from outcrop by explosives; similar to surface grab in that precise location of specimen in the rock body is not precisely known		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	SESAR collection method
secm:sm033	Dredge sampling	samples _grabbed_ from submarine surface by dragging a basket with an enclosed bottom (solid or open-chain) along the bottom of the water body.	Used for sampling sediment material or rock from the bottom of a water body.  Use Trawl if focus is on pelagic or benthic biome.	secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	SESAR collection method
secm:sm033	Dredge sampling	samples _grabbed_ from submarine surface by dragging a basket with an enclosed bottom (solid or open-chain) along the bottom of the water body.	Used for sampling sediment material or rock from the bottom of a water body.  Use Trawl if focus is on pelagic or benthic biome.	secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm034	Grab from trench or pit	loose sediment collected into bag from the wall of a trench, stream bank  or pit--any vertical cut that provides access to a near surface soil and sediment profile; common for sampling soil horizons.		secm:sm035	Manual grab	this vocabulary
secm:sm035	Manual grab	Material sample is obtained by picking up an object by hand		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	SESAR collection method
secm:sm036	Sediment grab	Sediment grabs come in all shapes and sizes  but they all do much the same thing  to collect a sample of sediment from the seabed. Sediment grabs are often named after their inventors. For example  the Smith-MacIntyre grab is lowered from ships  and on contact with the seabed a split cylindrical bucket is triggered which scoops up about 10 litres of sediment. Another is the Van-Veen grab like a giant pair of tongs which closes two halves of the bucket together as the winch draws the cable in. Sediment is then evenly scooped into the large buckets. A sediment grab does not attempt to preserve the internal structure of the sediment  which disginguishes it from soft sediment coring.		secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	http://www.deepreef.org/technology/9-grab.html
secm:sm037	Stream sediment composite	composite of several single grab sediment samples collected from a stream channel agregatted in the field. Sample might be collected from subaqueous stream bed, or in a dry stream channel.		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	this vocabulary
secm:sm038	Stream sediment single grab	stream sediment collected from bed of a stream at a single location; Sample might be collected from subaqueous stream bed, or in a dry stream channel.		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	this vocabulary
secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	Specimens gathered from the bed of a water body by a mechanical grab primarily for lithogical and petrographical analyses.		secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	SESAR collection method
secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	Specimens gathered from the bed of a water body by a mechanical grab primarily for lithogical and petrographical analyses.		secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	Specimens gathered from the bed of a water body by a mechanical grab primarily for lithogical and petrographical analyses.		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	SESAR collection method
secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	Specimens gathered from the bed of a water body by a mechanical grab primarily for lithogical and petrographical analyses.		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	Samples _grabbed_ from submarine surface		secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	SESAR collection method
secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	Samples _grabbed_ from submarine surface		secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	Samples _grabbed_ from submarine surface		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	SESAR collection method
secm:sm039	Water body bottom grab	Samples _grabbed_ from submarine surface		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	Geoscience Australia
secm:sm040	Lag sample	Sample collected by sweeping up surface lag material over some area and bagging it.  Generally only used in arid or semi-arid environments where surface lag is representative in some way of underlying bedrock.		secm:ses218	Human grab from surface	this vocabulary
secm:sm041	Coring	Sample is removed from sampling feature by extracting an undisturbed provile  typically as a long cylinder  meant to preserve the internal structure of the sampled sediment or rock.  sample extracted as a cylinder of material drilled out of the feature of interest; diameter can range from mm to m, lengths mm to 100_s of m.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	this vocabulary
secm:sm043	Fluid sampling	General category for gas and water sampling procedures that obtain a specimen in a sealed container, or feed directly to analytical equipment (e.g. autosamplers).		secm:sm100	Sampling method	this vocabulary
secm:sm044	Other sampling procedure	Specimen obtained using some mechnical process not identified in this vocabulary		secm:sm100	Sampling method	this vocabulary
secm:sm045	Processed separation	separation of part of a sample by some lab technique; have to look at processing method for details. E.g. density separation  magnetic separation  insoluble residue  hand picking.  Too many possibilities to categorize each subsampling method.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	this vocabulary
secm:sm046	Splitting from bulk sample	mechanical separation of part of a bulk sample. E.g. breaking a hand sample up with a hammer and taking pieces, cutting peices from a solid sample, splitting material in a bagged sample		secm:sm045	Processed separation	this vocabulary
secm:sm047	Surface grab 	Specimen obtained by picking up material from a surface, subaerial or subaqueous; may involve breaking material away from outcrop  or picking up loose material on surface		secm:sm100	Sampling method	this vocabulary
secm:sm100	Sampling method	Top concept, for all methods used to collect material samples				this vocabulary
secm:sm200	Sediment water incubation sampling	Samples that include sediment and water, typically from near water body bottom, collected		secm:sm100	Sampling method	
secm:surface_material_sampling	Subaerial surface sampling	Collection of earth materials at the ground surface on land.		secm:sm047	Surface grab 	Geoscience Australia
secm:trawlsampling	Trawl sampling	Collection of sample by dragging a net through the water column or along the bottom of the water column. Connotation is focus on biome in the water or at the water-sediment interface, but might include suspended sediment in water or sediment from water body bottom.	Include net systems that might be simple manual scoops through near surface, and systems that pump lots of water through a net (e.g. 'big Bertha, https://serc.si.edu/node/38659) to achieve the same effect.	secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	this vocabulary
secm:undergound_mine_sampling	Undergound mine sampling	Collection of material from a rock outcrop exposed beneath the ground surface (eg, a mine), typically using a hammer.		secm:surface_material_sampling	Subaerial surface sampling	Geoscience Australia
secm:unknown	unknown	The sampling method is unknown.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	
secm:vacuumporewatersampling	Vacuum pore water sampling	Extraction of pore water from soil or sediment by creating a vacuum.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	https://www.sedgeochem.uni-bremen.de/rhizon.html
secm:vacuumporewatersampling	Vacuum pore water sampling	Extraction of pore water from soil or sediment by creating a vacuum.		secm:sm014	Water sampling	https://www.rhizosphere.com/rhizons/
secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	Collection of materials during a marine, lacustrine, or coastal survey by any method.		secm:sm100	Sampling method	Geoscience Australia
secm:waterbodywatersampling	Water body water sampling	Collection of water samples from a water body; includes surface water, lakes, marine water.		secm:waterbodysampling	Water body survey sampling	this vocabulary
secm:waxcoring	Wax coring	Samples sediment and volcanic glass at the sea floor by crashing a weighted core tube that has a ring of sticky wax at the bottom into the sea floor.  Invented to sample volcanic glass shards in surface deposits along mid ocean ridges.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	https://web.mit.edu/deeparch/www/publications/papers/YoergerEtAl1999.pdf
secm:waxcoring	Wax coring	Samples sediment and volcanic glass at the sea floor by crashing a weighted core tube that has a ring of sticky wax at the bottom into the sea floor.  Invented to sample volcanic glass shards in surface deposits along mid ocean ridges.		secm:sm005	Soft material coring	https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023AGUFMV43B018.1L/abstract
